STRIPS (Fikes and Nilsson 1971)  
http://ai.stanford.edu/~nilsson/OnlinePubs-Nils/PublishedPapers/strips.pdf

This paper describes a problem solving called STRIPS (STanford Research Institue Problem Solver). It introduces a new way of problem solving introducing The Problem Space which defines a initial world model by a set of well formed formulas (wff), the available operators for this world model and the goal. It also describes the search strategy GPS (General Problem Solver) strategy of extracting "differences" between the present world model and the goal and identifying operators that are "relevant" to reducing these differences. 
This paper introduced the Problem for state-space search and well formed formulas in AI field as , and was the first major planning system. It was designed as the planing component of the software for Shakey robot project a SRI.



The birth of Prolog, Alain Colmerauer and Philippe Roussel (1992)
https://web.stanford.edu/class/linguist289/p37-colmerauer.pdf

This paper describes the prolog language beginnings and evolution, and how it passed from a language planed to be used for man-machine communication in natural language using first order logic to a more varied use for AI problem solving. As a point of union with the logic and search strategies we are studying, it describes the uses of prolog as a logic and knowledge representation tool, and as an example, a routing problem for flight routes is described.



Ghallab et al 1998
http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/mfourman/tools/propplan/pddl.pdf

This paper describes the syntax and semantics of PDDL (Planing Domain Definition Language) This is the language used in this course for describing the initial states, actions and goals. It uses STRIP style actions and conditional effects. 
PDDL is intended to express the “physics” of a domain, this is, what predicates there are, what actions are possible, what the structure of compounds actions is, and what the effects of actions are. PDDL introduced the as first computer-parsable standarized syntax for representing planning problems in the AI field, and has been used as the standard language for the International Planning Competition since 1998. 




